today I'm going to review the Jean an
intimate history by Siddhartha Mukherjee
so this book is the second book from
Siddhartha Mukherjee or maybe it's his
third book it's the second really big
book his first book was the Emperor of
all maladies the book about cancer - a
biography of cancer I think it's what
the subtitle is I already reviewed that
book it's really good this book is also
really good I didn't think it had quite
the same emotional impact but it's just
as fascinating of a read as his first
book so a really good follow-up book to
that first book I think this book really
solidifies just how great of a rioter
Siddhartha Mukherjee is both his books
were just written so well they're very
technical and they cover a lot of
information and it it's not a clear
there's not a clear storyline through
the information but he creates one and
he tells the story really well in both
books the genes definitely not an
exception to that so really I just came
away from this thinking that Siddhartha
Mukherjee is just one of the top writers
in the nonfiction space and I hope he
keeps writing books because I'm
definitely going to keep reading
everything he writes because I mean both
his books have been long they've been in
depth and they've just been really
pleasurable books to read and I like
this book even more now so this is the
second time I read the gene I read it I
think a couple years ago for the first
time right after I read the Emperor of
all maladies and I appreciate the gene
more now because I recently read another
book that talked a lot about the same
material and that is she has her
mother's laugh by Carl Zimmer and I
reviewed this book too
I don't think this book is as good as
the gene it's kind of winding it doesn't
really stay on topic that much it's kind
of all
hard to follow his narrative and it
ended up being a good book but what was
so impressive about the Jean was he
covers most of that information maybe
not all of it but he covers a lot of it
but the narrative here he writes and and
the way he keeps your attention is just
so much better and it just shows how
much more skill he has as a writer
especially on this topic because since
Siddhartha Mukherjee was a doctor he has
a really good understanding of the
science so I think he can kind of
navigate all the the issues in a way
that really makes sense the way that
maybe someone like Carl Zimmer who I
don't think he has he's not a doctor
he's gonna have a harder time so this
book the gene really great at creating a
cohesive story through a very complex
topic I don't think this book would be
the best book if you're looking to get
like a modern understanding of where
genetics is that today the vast majority
of this book is talking about the past
and the history of genetics and honestly
I think the history of genetics is a
much more interesting story than where
genetics is at today because today our
understanding of how humans work and
what makes them do what they do is so
complicated and there's so many things
going into it from like the neuroscience
of how the brain works to epigenetics
and the genes and your DNA has a huge
role but the modern story is so much
more complex and as so much more things
going on that I think if you if you're
interested in kind of the modern view
you're a lot better off by looking at a
book like behave by Robert Sapolsky
which doesn't say it's a it's not a
genetics book but it's talking about why
humans do what they do and genetics is a
big part of that and so I think that
book will give you a much better
understanding of kind of where genetics
fits in with all the other topics and
and making people do what they do and
how they why they are the way they are
the gene is really it's about the
history and it's not even
just about the science I really feel
like this book was more about the
intersection of the history of the
science like the people's lives who were
living through these times and how
they're dealing with genetic diseases
and and mutations and things like that
and then just the possibilities that
have been unlocked by genetics and how
humans have dealt with that and one of
the possibilities good and bad with the
science and really the book just creates
a narrative with the intersection of all
those different topics together and so
it's a really interesting book but I
don't know if you're gonna learn that
much maybe if you're new to genetics
you might learn a lot but at least the
science that he does cover it's not that
in-depth I mean he covers a lot but but
so much of the book is just focused on
the history so he doesn't really spend
that much time giving you a like a good
understanding of the science as a whole
it's kind of you're following the story
of the how the science evolved over time
which it's really again it's really
interesting I really enjoyed it but it's
not the book isn't written to give you
an understanding of the science I think
if you're just trying to explain the
science there's a much more
straightforward way to approach the
topic but this book is a great it's a
great story of the history of genetics
and what it's meant for people and where
Michael in the future I definitely would
recommend this book I really enjoyed
this book I've read it twice now I
enjoyed it the second time as much as I
did the first time maybe even more this
time because I've read other books on
the topic so I can appreciate how good
he he is are riding on this topic now so
if you're interested in genetics or the
history of genetics this is definitely
the book to read the gene I mean this is
for me the number one on the topic of
the history of genetic science though I
mean there's only a couple books in that
space so that might not be saying that
much so if you're oranged in the book
yeah absolutely pick it up and give it a
read you will not regret reading that
book or you won't regret reading his
first book either
if you're not satisfied with the gene
then maybe you could give she has her
mother's laugh a read so I think if you
read them both you'll really like the
gene more at least I did so I hope you
like this video I've got more reviews
coming soon so like subscribe and hope
to see you guys in the next one
you